README.md, before:

<div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
    <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3f9cc2b8-307c-491f-bdb0-5d1755aa09f5" alt="logo">
    <h1>Vehicle Detection and Tracking System</h1>
</div>
## Overview

The Vehicle Detection and Tracking System is a web application designed to monitor and analyze vehicle movement using advanced object detection techniques. This project integrates real-time video streams from cameras to capture vehicle images, extract license plate information, and generate analytical reports.

## Features

- Real-time vehicle detection and tracking using YOLOv8.
- License plate recognition powered by Paddle OCR.
- Data visualizations to analyze vehicle activity over time.
- Configurable zones for monitoring specific areas.
- User-friendly web interface built with Django and Bootstrap.

## Architecture

The system follows a modular architecture, where each component is designed to perform a specific task:

1. **Camera Integration**: The application connects to IP cameras via RTSP streams to capture video feeds.
2. **Object Detection**: YOLOv8 is employed for detecting vehicles in real-time. It processes frames from the video feed and identifies vehicles based on trained models.
3. **OCR Engine**: Paddle OCR is used to recognize and extract license plate information from the captured vehicle images. It efficiently processes images and outputs text data.
4. **Data Storage**: Detected vehicles and their corresponding information are stored in a PostgreSQL database for further analysis and reporting.
5. **Web Interface**: A responsive web interface allows users to interact with the system, view reports, and configure settings.

## Models

### YOLOv8

The YOLO (You Only Look Once) algorithm is a state-of-the-art object detection system that performs detection in real-time. YOLOv8 improves upon previous versions with enhanced accuracy and speed. It divides the image into a grid and predicts bounding boxes and probabilities for each grid cell simultaneously, making it suitable for dynamic environments such as traffic monitoring.

Key features of YOLOv8 include:

- **Real-Time Processing**: Designed for high-speed detection, YOLOv8 can process frames quickly, making it ideal for live video feeds.
- **High Accuracy**: Improved detection algorithms ensure high precision in identifying vehicles of various sizes and types.
- **Flexible Configuration**: Supports different configurations based on the detection requirements and hardware capabilities.

### Paddle OCR

Paddle OCR is a powerful optical character recognition engine developed by PaddlePaddle. It provides robust text recognition capabilities across multiple languages and formats. In this project, Paddle OCR is utilized for license plate recognition.

Key benefits of using Paddle OCR:

- **Multi-Language Support**: Capable of recognizing text in various languages, making it versatile for global applications.
- **Pre-trained Models**: Offers pre-trained models that can be easily integrated and fine-tuned for specific tasks, such as license plate recognition.
- **High Accuracy and Performance**: Delivers precise OCR results even in challenging conditions, such as low light or partial occlusion.

## Usage

1. **Access the Web Interface**: Navigate to the application in your web browser.
2. **Configure Cameras**: Set up camera streams and zones for monitoring.
3. **View Detected Vehicles**: Analyze the vehicle detection reports and visualizations generated by the system.
4. **Export Data**: Export analytical reports in Excel format for further review.

## Project Flow

The following flowchart illustrates the process flow of the Vehicle Detection and Tracking System:

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Camera Integration] -->|RTSP Streams| B{Object Detection}
    B -->|YOLOv8| C{License Plate Recognition}
    C -->|Paddle OCR| D[Data Storage]
    D -->|PostgreSQL| E[Web Interface]
    E -->|User Interaction| A
    style A fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
    style B fill:#bbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
    style C fill:#bfb,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
    style D fill:#ffb,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
    style E fill:#fbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
```


## Contributing

Contributions to the project are welcome! If you would like to contribute, please fork the repository and submit a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.

## Contact

For inquiries, please reach out to:
- **Email**: sales@petrainfotech.com
- **Phone**: +91 95243 20212

Commit message:

Update README.md: Update project flowchart and add custom models for vehicle detection and license plate detection

README.md, after:

<div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
    <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3f9cc2b8-307c-491f-bdb0-5d1755aa09f5" alt="logo">
    <h1>Petra Infotech - AI-Powered Vehicle Detection and Tracking System</h1>
</div>
## Overview

The Vehicle Detection and Tracking System is a web application designed to monitor and analyze vehicle movement using advanced object detection techniques. This project integrates real-time video streams from cameras to capture vehicle images, extract license plate information, and generate analytical reports.

## Features

- Real-time vehicle detection and tracking using YOLOv8.
- License plate recognition powered by Paddle OCR.
- Data visualizations to analyze vehicle activity over time.
- Configurable zones for monitoring specific areas.
- User-friendly web interface built with Django and Bootstrap.

## Architecture

The system follows a modular architecture, where each component is designed to perform a specific task:

1. **Camera Integration**: The application connects to IP cameras via RTSP streams to capture video feeds.
2. **Object Detection**: YOLOv8 is employed for detecting vehicles in real-time. It processes frames from the video feed and identifies vehicles based on trained models.
3. **OCR Engine**: Paddle OCR is used to recognize and extract license plate information from the captured vehicle images. It efficiently processes images and outputs text data.
4. **Data Storage**: Detected vehicles and their corresponding information are stored in a PostgreSQL database for further analysis and reporting.
5. **Web Interface**: A responsive web interface allows users to interact with the system, view reports, and configure settings.

## Models

### YOLOv8

The YOLO (You Only Look Once) algorithm is a state-of-the-art object detection system that performs detection in real-time. YOLOv8 improves upon previous versions with enhanced accuracy and speed. It divides the image into a grid and predicts bounding boxes and probabilities for each grid cell simultaneously, making it suitable for dynamic environments such as traffic monitoring.

Key features of YOLOv8 include:

- **Real-Time Processing**: Designed for high-speed detection, YOLOv8 can process frames quickly, making it ideal for live video feeds.
- **High Accuracy**: Improved detection algorithms ensure high precision in identifying vehicles of various sizes and types.
- **Flexible Configuration**: Supports different configurations based on the detection requirements and hardware capabilities.

#### Our Models

We have trained two custom models using YOLOv8 for vehicle detection:

1. **Vehicle Detection**: This model is trained to detect vehicles in real-time from video streams. It identifies cars, trucks, and other types of vehicles with high accuracy.

2. **License Plate Detection**: A specialized model for detecting license plates on vehicles. It extracts license plate information for further processing and analysis.


### Paddle OCR

Paddle OCR is a powerful optical character recognition engine developed by PaddlePaddle. It provides robust text recognition capabilities across multiple languages and formats. In this project, Paddle OCR is utilized for license plate recognition.

Key benefits of using Paddle OCR:

- **Multi-Language Support**: Capable of recognizing text in various languages, making it versatile for global applications.
- **Pre-trained Models**: Offers pre-trained models that can be easily integrated and fine-tuned for specific tasks, such as license plate recognition.
- **High Accuracy and Performance**: Delivers precise OCR results even in challenging conditions, such as low light or partial occlusion.

## Usage

1. **Access the Web Interface**: Navigate to the application in your web browser.
2. **Configure Cameras**: Set up camera streams and zones for monitoring.
3. **View Detected Vehicles**: Analyze the vehicle detection reports and visualizations generated by the system.
4. **Export Data**: Export analytical reports in Excel format for further review.

## Project Flow

The following flowchart illustrates the process flow of the Vehicle Detection and Tracking System:

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Camera Integration] -->|RTSP Streams| B{Object Detection}
    B -->|YOLOv8| C{License Plate Recognition}
    C -->|Paddle OCR| D[Data Storage]
    D -->|PostgreSQL| E[Web Interface]
    E -->|User Interaction| A
    style A fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
    style B fill:#bbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
    style C fill:#bfb,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
    style D fill:#ffb,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
    style E fill:#fbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.

## Contact

For inquiries, please reach out to:
- **Email**: sales@petrainfotech.com
- **Phone**: +91 95243 20212
